about.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Hi, my name is Emmet. Nice to meet you!
permalink: /about/
---

I'm a fledging developer, in the midst of a daunting but exciting career change from the medical field to the technology realm.

So far, I'm enjoying the journey quite a bit and I hope that this quick About Me can give you a little more info.

### What Do You Do?

Currently, I work in a psychatric facility as a Theraputic Attendant/Behavioral Health Assistant. Think of someone that a person may come and talk to, who is the middle ground between a friend and a therapist.

### What Do You Know?

| Most Comfortable | Comfortable | Still Learning |
| ---------------- | ----------- | -------------- |
| HTML5/CSS3       | C++         | FireStore      |
| JavaScript(ES6)  | BASH        | MySQL          |
| Git              | React       | Node           |

<!-- The laungages that I am currently comfortable with are HTML5/CSS3, SCSS, JavaScript(ES6), Git, and C++. However, I do know a fair amount of BASH and I use most Git features through BASH out of preference.

The database that I am most comfortable with is Firestore, but I am learning MySQL due to a project that I am currently developing needing a relational database.

The web framework that I'm most comfortable with is React, but I am open to learning more web frameworks as needed.

Other tools that I have familiarity with are  -->

### Contact me

[email@domain.com](mailto:email@domain.com)
Linq: https://linqapp.com/emmet (Virtual Business Card)

Commit message:

Updated Projects and About Sections

about.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Hi, my name is Emmet. Nice to meet you!
permalink: /about/
---

I'm a fledging developer, in the midst of a daunting but exciting career change from the medical field to the technology realm.

### What Do You Do?

Currently, I work in a psychatric facility as a Theraputic Attendant/Behavioral Health Assistant. Think of someone that a person may come and talk to, who is the middle ground between a friend and a therapist.

### What Do You Know?

<!-- | Most Comfortable | Comfortable | Still Learning |
| ---------------- | ----------- | -------------- |
| HTML5/CSS3       | C++         | FireStore      |
| JavaScript(ES6)  | BASH        | MySQL          |
| Git              | React       | Node           | -->

The laungages that I am currently comfortable with are HTML5/CSS3, SCSS, JavaScript(ES6), Git, and C++. However, I do know a fair amount of BASH.

The database that I am most comfortable with is Firestore, and I am currently learning MySQL.

The web framework that I'm most comfortable with is React.

The backend framework that I am currently learning is Node.js .

### Contact me

[email@domain.com](mailto:email@domain.com) <br>
Linq: https://linqapp.com/emmet (Virtual Business Card)
