projects.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Projects
permalink: /projects/
published: true
---

## [Royal Navy Capital: Online Banking Landing and Sign-In Page](https://royal-navy-capital.netlify.app)

### Description

The general theme for this project was to get re-acquinted with Web Development, specifically Front End Development. React was used for its ease of modularity through the use of conternization via components using the Flux Paradigm to ensure maximum code maintainability and unidirectional data flow. React Stylized Components was used for out-of-the-box intergration with React, further improving on Reacts' modularity by including styling that can be containerized to specific components and further reinforcing the Flux Paradigm. SCSS was used for its pre-processing styling power, enabling the use of global variables and import to be used within a master-style sheet, creating reinforced style containerization for general Web Components when necesscary. React Router was also used to minimize server calls within the page itself by manipulating the DOM of single-page applications, useful for controlling progressive resolution views between pages.

<br>

## [City Of Saints and Rebels: Landing Page](https://emmet-allen.github.io/COSAR/)

### Description

City Of Saints And Rebels: Website Concept for Upcoming StreetWear Clothing Brand.

This is a concept website that I developed using BootStrap 5. It works on both desktop and mobile, but is more mobile friendly, with a centered layout. It is in a single page format, and was developed solely as a proof of concept, as asked for by the creator of the brand.

<br>

## [F***ing Weather: NSFW Weather](https://f-weather.netlify.app)
### Description

  This App uses React, SCSS, and OpenWeather API. The Website is both desktop and mobile friendly. I created this app because I had a pebble watch that had a watch face called "NSFW Time" where the time would be told to you with numerous explitives. I really enjoyed that watchface and this is a homage to that.

<br>



<!--- ## [Moonlite: Sleep Tracker Login Screen](https://moonlite-login-react.netlify.app)

### Description

  This project was created with React as a framework, and using Figma for interface design. I was curious on how to use Figma to better aid in Front-End workflow, so this is the product of that curiousity. I am not the best designer by any means, but I do like the workflow Figma provides, and would be open to using it for more projects in the future. --->






<!-- Some information about you!

### More Information

A place to include any other types of information that you'd like to include about yourself.

### Contact me

[email@domain.com](mailto:email@domain.com) -->

Commit message:

Updated About Me and Projects Page, Added new Blog Post

projects.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Projects
permalink: /projects/
published: true
---

## [Bald_E VirtualMe](https://github.com/Emmet-Allen/Bald_E-VirtualMe)

### Description

Bald_E is a virtual 3d model of... well myself. Why would I create a virtual version of myself, you may ask? My life involves a ton of meetings, and sometimes I am not looking as spiffy as I should, or I don't want to be on camera but I want to be visually 'present' if that makes sense. To solve this issue I created a virutal version of myself which is protected and under BSD 3, so I am legally protected if anyone were to use my virtual likeness. It was created using Vroid studio, where I connect to VSeeFace for facial recognition and virtual camera capabilities.  

<br>

## [Untitled Platformer](https://github.com/Emmet-Allen/Platformer)

### Description

An Untitled Platformer using Lua and LOVE game engine

A hobby project I'm creating to learn more about game developement. This project is using the Lua programing langauge, and the Love game engine. Currently I have only a debugging stage, but once the game logic is complete I hope to add more interactivity such as collectables, enemies, and more stages for the player to go through.

<br>

## [Dataiku and Pace Hackathon 2021](https://github.com/Emmet-Allen/PaceHackathon2021)

### Description

This project was a part of a Hackathon that was three months long (Sept - Nov 2021), in where a group of 3 students, myself included, were tasked with helping
sellers understand what they should sell their homes for, as well as inform them of the most important attributes of a home which influence the price. The project
consisted of webscrapping data from popular real estate websites and passing that information into machiene learning models on the Dataiku platform. We then
were tasked with creating documentation based on our findings along with diagrams and charts.  

<br>

## [Royal Navy Capital: Online Banking Landing and Sign-In Page](https://royal-navy-capital.netlify.app)
### Description

The general theme for this project was to get re-acquinted with Web Development, specifically Front End Development. React was used for its ease of modularity through the use of conternization via components using the Flux Paradigm to ensure maximum code maintainability and unidirectional data flow. React Stylized Components was used for out-of-the-box intergration with React, further improving on Reacts' modularity by including styling that can be containerized to specific components and further reinforcing the Flux Paradigm. SCSS was used for its pre-processing styling power, enabling the use of global variables and import to be used within a master-style sheet, creating reinforced style containerization for general Web Components when necesscary. React Router was also used to minimize server calls within the page itself by manipulating the DOM of single-page applications, useful for controlling progressive resolution views between pages.

<br>

## [City Of Saints and Rebels: Landing Page](https://emmet-allen.github.io/COSAR/)

### Description

City Of Saints And Rebels: Website Concept for Upcoming StreetWear Clothing Brand.

This is a concept website that I developed using BootStrap 5. It works on both desktop and mobile, but is more mobile friendly, with a centered layout. It is in a single page format, and was developed solely as a proof of concept, as asked for by the creator of the brand.

<br>

## [F***ing Weather: NSFW Weather](https://f-weather.netlify.app)
### Description

  This App uses React, SCSS, and OpenWeather API. The Website is both desktop and mobile friendly. I created this app because I had a pebble watch that had a watch face called "NSFW Time" where the time would be told to you with numerous explitives. I really enjoyed that watchface and this is a homage to that.




<!--- ## [Moonlite: Sleep Tracker Login Screen](https://moonlite-login-react.netlify.app)

### Description

  This project was created with React as a framework, and using Figma for interface design. I was curious on how to use Figma to better aid in Front-End workflow, so this is the product of that curiousity. I am not the best designer by any means, but I do like the workflow Figma provides, and would be open to using it for more projects in the future. --->






<!-- Some information about you!

### More Information

A place to include any other types of information that you'd like to include about yourself.

### Contact me

[email@domain.com](mailto:email@domain.com) -->
