---
published: true
---
## TypeScript: Better JavaScript

  I have been using and learning TypeScript lately for a pretty large (Well for a solo project), API that I'm currently creating, and I have to say that TypeScript is that sweet intersection between ease of JavaScript, with all the nuanced compiler yelling at you nonsense that I love from languages such as C++ and Java. I mean yeah I can write code like this: `let var i = 2`, in JS and I can get away with it until some funky API call happens and that `var i` is added to a string, causing a mess of problems that I wouldn't want to deal with. Yes, the age old problem of "What does this do: `let var j = i + '2'`. Sadly, I am not running the chronium engine in my brain, but I can say with 99% accuracy that it will do things you didn't intend for that block of code to do. 

  That is where TypeScript comes in and basically says, "Check yo'self before you wreck yo'self", and basically doesn't allow that code to be compiled. I'm not going to go into too much detail about TypeScript itself, but basically, its a superset of JavaScript (as C++ is a superset of C), which uses static types and other features that are found in statically typed langagues, it is then ran through a compiler which compiles it to JavaScript which can then be used by most frameworks that support JavaScript. Now this is not to say that TypeScript doesn't have its faults, typing everything can be a P.I.T.A, and for those who aren't used to statically typed languages they sometimes feel the need to change a variables type to `any`, but those are minor inconviences for the power that comes with TypeScript.
  
  There are counter arguments such as using Babel to compile larger projects and to create safer JavaScript code. Yes, Babel does have its uses, especially for pre-ES6 JavaScript code, but to start a project with TypeScripts ES6 support would eliminate the need to use Babel because the ES version code be easily changed through the config file and adjusted through the compiler accordingly. Another counter arguement is that TypeScript doesn't work as well with certain frameworks as it does others, such as the case in TS-React vs. TS-Angular, and I also do agree, TS-React can sometimes be daunting to work with because of the return types of certain hooks within a `.TSX` file, but these return types can be found through reading the documentation that is native in VSCode. Yes `:HTML.ElmementAttribute` is a weird return type, but it is just a small caveat that could be rectified through further implementation of TS support with React. 

  In all, I think that TypeScript is an excellent tool, especially for someone coming from a statically typed programming language background. Though, it can also be an introduction for those who have started with JavaScript and want to learn about static types. Its a great tool, and I think with more support with other JavaScript frameworks, it could truly become the C++ of the web.
