---
published: true
---

This is the second part of the OOP primer series, where we discuss the concept of Abstraction and how it pertains to removing details of how an object works. 

If there are any comments please feel free to email me. 

**<u>Abstraction</u>**

When we think of abstraction, we usually think of "abstract thoughts",
such as thinking "out of the box", though in OOP abstraction is more so
keeping things "in the box" more so than out of it. Through Abstraction
we as programmers want to hide the details that may make up our programs
so that the end-user doesn't have to deal with them when running the
programs; the programs should **just work**. Going back to our car
example, when we press the gas pedal, we don't need to worry about how
much combustion is going on in the engine for the car to start to drive,
all we care about is the car driving. When dealing with Abstraction, we
want to hide all the unnecessary details when it comes to how the
objects themselves work from the end-user because it is not the
end-users responsibility or business to know how it all works, that is
up to the programmer.

Abstraction of the underlying mechanisms of objects is important because
it leaves it to the programmer to create the functionality necessary for
a certain object to perform the task that needs to be done. It doesn't
introduce to the end-user all the why's and how's and whats of an
object's certain functionality, instead, it only produces the necessary
output for its function. Abstraction within OOP is the "black
box" in which all the mechanisms of the object's functionality work but
the user doesn't have any clue what goes on inside of it. The "black
box" can take in an input, but it most definitely will produce some type
of output given its functionality whether that output is shown to the
user or the output will take place within the black box itself.
